README.md, before:

# bugzilla-reports-tool

This tool will allow you to create a Quality dashboard for your product and send (weekly or whenever you want, depend on cronjob) reports with bug status.
The quality dashboard is fully automated and the template Google Spreadsheet can be found here - https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1K2ImPbbFO52njNC2CjvRT5zpzO7wcvOp5L3GSkkGoR8/edit?usp=sharing

## Quality dashboard
An exeample of this dashboard:

![alt text](https://github.com/RazTamir/bugzilla-reports-tool/blob/master/pics/Screenshot%20from%202020-04-05%2015-23-43.png)

### Usage:

1. Copy this template and add your team name in the titie --> <"YOUR TEAM NAME INITIALS"> QE - Quality Dashboard

2. To enable interaction with Google spreadsheet, follow the steps in https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/quickstart/python and after, steps in here https://gspread.readthedocs.io/en/latest/oauth2.html#oauth-credentials (until step 6). 
Name the Json from step 3 as 'google_api_secret.json'
3. Creeate .gapi directory under ~/. with: $ mkdir ~/.gapi
5. place the google_api_secret.json under ~/.gapi/google_api_secret.json
6. Ensure you give 'Edit' permissions in your copied spreadsheet, to the 'client' in this json file
7. install the following on the machine that will execute the script:
   - gspread (pip install gspread) from https://github.com/burnash/gspread 
   - python-bugzilla (pip install python-bugzilla) from https://github.com/python-bugzilla/python-bugzilla 
   - oauth2client (pip install oauth2client) from https://github.com/googleapis/oauth2client
   - pyyaml (pip install pyyaml) from https://github.com/yaml/pyyaml
8. In the copied spreadsheet -> "Dashboard configuration", please change the values to fit your product and version
9. Create a yml file under ~/.gapi (from step 3) and name the file 'personal_cfg.yml' and add the following data:
```
bugzilla:
    user: <your RH account>@redhat.com
    password: <your Bugzilla passowrd>

# Optional
bugzilla_report:
    gmail_address: <your personal email address>
    gmail_pass: <your personal email password>
```
The 'Bugzilla' section is a must have for this dashboard to work as the scripts needs access to Bugzilla

10. Execute with:

$ python3.7 release_readiness_criteria.py SPREADSHEET_NAME

11. A list of recommended cronjob exist in the 'Dashboard configuration' tab

## QE Tracking dashboard
An exeample of this dashboard:

![alt text](https://github.com/RazTamir/bugzilla-reports-tool/blob/master/pics/Screenshot%20from%202019-10-28%2012-46-50.png)
### Usage:
Same steps as above with changing the script you execute in step 8 to:

$ python3.7 tracking_dashboard.py SPREADSHEET_NAME

## Arrival vs. Resolved trend
An exeample of this dashboard:

![alt text](https://github.com/RazTamir/bugzilla-reports-tool/blob/master/pics/Screenshot%20from%202019-11-18%2018-04-00.png)
### Usage:
Same steps as above with changing the script you execute in step 8 to:

$ python3.7 arrivals_vs_resolved.py SPREADSHEET_NAME


## Bugzilla reports - Currently in a POC
An example of this report:
![alt text](https://github.com/RazTamir/bugzilla-reports-tool/blob/master/pics/Screenshot%20from%202019-11-04%2019-49-55.png)


#### Sections currently available:
* New arrivals
* Resolved bugs (count only)
* Total ON_QA (count only)
* ON_QA 'blockers'
* Open 'blockers?'
* Open 'blockers+'

### Usage:
1. install the following on the machine that will execute the script:
   - python-bugzilla (pip install python-bugzilla) from https://github.com/python-bugzilla/python-bugzilla 
2. Under config.py you have few lines that needs your attention to be specific to your product - please follow the guidelines in comments under config.py
3. Under personal_config.py add your relevant information so the tool will be able to access
4. Execute with: $ python bugzilla_report.py

Commit message:

Layered product bugs
Added the ability to fetch bug info of bugs which are impacting your product
and of your component in a different product

README.md, after:

# bugzilla-reports-tool

This tool will allow you to create a Quality dashboard for your product and send (weekly or whenever you want, depend on cronjob) reports with bug status.
The quality dashboard is fully automated and the template Google Spreadsheet can be found here - https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1K2ImPbbFO52njNC2CjvRT5zpzO7wcvOp5L3GSkkGoR8/edit?usp=sharing

## Quality dashboard
An exeample of this dashboard:

![alt text](https://github.com/RazTamir/bugzilla-reports-tool/blob/master/pics/Screenshot%20from%202020-04-05%2015-23-43.png)

### Usage:

1. Copy this template and add your team name in the titie --> <"YOUR TEAM NAME INITIALS"> QE - Quality Dashboard

2. To enable interaction with Google spreadsheet, follow the steps in https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/quickstart/python and after, steps in here https://gspread.readthedocs.io/en/latest/oauth2.html#oauth-credentials (until step 6). 
Name the Json from step 3 as 'google_api_secret.json'
3. Creeate .gapi directory under ~/. with: $ mkdir ~/.gapi
5. place the google_api_secret.json under ~/.gapi/google_api_secret.json
6. Ensure you give 'Edit' permissions in your copied spreadsheet, to the 'client' in this json file
7. install the following on the machine that will execute the script:
   - gspread (pip install gspread) from https://github.com/burnash/gspread 
   - python-bugzilla (pip install python-bugzilla) from https://github.com/python-bugzilla/python-bugzilla 
   - oauth2client (pip install oauth2client) from https://github.com/googleapis/oauth2client
   - pyyaml (pip install pyyaml) from https://github.com/yaml/pyyaml
8. In the copied spreadsheet -> "Dashboard configuration", please change the values to fit your product and version
9. Create a yml file under ~/.gapi (from step 3) and name the file 'personal_cfg.yml' and add the following data:
```
bugzilla:
    user: <your RH account>@redhat.com
    password: <your Bugzilla passowrd>

# Optional
bugzilla_report:
    gmail_address: <your personal email address>
    gmail_pass: <your personal email password>
```
The 'Bugzilla' section is a must have for this dashboard to work as the scripts needs access to Bugzilla

10. Execute with:

$ python3.7 release_readiness_criteria.py SPREADSHEET_NAME

11. A list of recommended cronjob exist in the 'Dashboard configuration' tab

## QE Tracking dashboard
An exeample of this dashboard:

![alt text](https://github.com/RazTamir/bugzilla-reports-tool/blob/master/pics/Screenshot%20from%202019-10-28%2012-46-50.png)
### Usage:
Same steps as above with changing the script you execute in step 8 to:

$ python3.7 tracking_dashboard.py SPREADSHEET_NAME

## Arrival vs. Resolved trend
An exeample of this dashboard:

![alt text](https://github.com/RazTamir/bugzilla-reports-tool/blob/master/pics/Screenshot%20from%202019-11-18%2018-04-00.png)
### Usage:
Same steps as above with changing the script you execute in step 8 to:

$ python3.7 arrivals_vs_resolved.py SPREADSHEET_NAME


## Bugzilla reports - Currently in a POC
An example of this report:
![alt text](https://github.com/RazTamir/bugzilla-reports-tool/blob/master/pics/Screenshot%20from%202019-11-04%2019-49-55.png)


## Layered product bugs
An example of this report:
![alt text](https://github.com/RazTamir/bugzilla-reports-tool/blob/master/pics/layered_product_bugs.png)
### Usage:
Same steps as above with changing the script you execute in step 8 to:

$ python3.7 layered_product_bugs.py SPREADSHEET_NAME

#### Sections currently available:
* New arrivals
* Resolved bugs (count only)
* Total ON_QA (count only)
* ON_QA 'blockers'
* Open 'blockers?'
* Open 'blockers+'

### Usage:
1. install the following on the machine that will execute the script:
   - python-bugzilla (pip install python-bugzilla) from https://github.com/python-bugzilla/python-bugzilla 
2. Under config.py you have few lines that needs your attention to be specific to your product - please follow the guidelines in comments under config.py
3. Under personal_config.py add your relevant information so the tool will be able to access
4. Execute with: $ python bugzilla_report.py
